Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain an action, horror, mystery,
and sci-fi film called "Pandorum."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The Earth's resources have been rapidly
depleting due to its large population.
By 2153, the population has grown to 24.34
billion, making food and water even more
scarce. That same year, the Paleo-17 space probe
has reached the planet, Tanis. Project Elysium
is launched in 2174 as nations start to fight
over what remains of the world's resources.
Soon, Elysium glides through space as its crew
listens to a multilingual message from Earth,
telling them, "You're all that's left of
us. Good luck, God Bless, and God speed."
Corporal Bower gasps for air as he wakes
up in panic inside his hypersleep pod.
He breaks free from the harness
supporting him and rips out all
the tubes attached to him as he leaves
the capsule. He checks the other pods
for other crew members and sees that
the pod for a crew member named Cooper
is empty. Lieutenant Payton, on the other hand,
is still in his capsule, deep in hyper-sleep.
As he gets dressed, he finds a picture of a
woman on his locker and takes it. He tries
unlocking the door to the bridge, but he fails,
so he tries to wake Payton by repeatedly hitting
his pod with a metal rod. A sudden power surge
on the ship soon causes Payton's pod to open.
When Payton emerges, Bower informs him that they
are in the Elysium, but he can't find the other
crew members. With no other people around, Bower
speculates that the flight computer awakened him.
Due to their long slumber, the two men struggle
to remember important details about their mission.
Bower recalls the training he went through,
but he can't remember the objective.
As they inspect the ship, they come across
the door of the bridge. Bower sees a few
tools lying close to the door and asserts
that someone else tried to open it manually.
The two men reach the communications
room and manage to activate the consoles.
Payton tries to contact other team
members, but no one is answering.
Bower learns from the tattoo on his arm that
they belong to Flight Team 5. When another power
surge hits the ship, Payton tells Bower that
they have to find a way to get to the bridge.
Bower climbs up the vent to look for
another opening that will allow him to
open the doors from the other side
of the command center. Meanwhile,
more power surges keep happening,
each lasting longer than the last.
Bower figures out that the reactor needs to be
reset to keep the power up and running. Payton
deduces that Bower must be the ship's technical
engineer from his knowledge about the reactor.
As he crawls through the vents, the
tubes around Bower start to get tighter,
making him feel claustrophobic. To calm him
down, Payton jokes that he had managed to
open the door on his own. Bower keeps going
until he falls down an angled section of the
vent. After activating a light stick, Bower
discovers Cooper's rotting corpse beside
him. He struggles to free his hand from the
tubes constricting him to unlock the shaft.
He falls through the grate and
finds himself in the storage room.
Bower uses a metal bar to pry open the door, but
he loses communication with Payton after getting
in. While he is walking through the ship's
corridor, he sees a woman trying to force
a door open with a metal rod. However, she runs
away as soon as she sees Bower. He chases after
her until he reaches another corridor where he
sees someone standing a few feet away from him.
Bower tells the woman that he's part of
the flight crew as he walks closer to her.
However, when he shines the light on her face,
he discovers that it's a dead body of a man
hanging from a wire attached to the ceiling.
The woman named Nadia suddenly emerges
from hiding and kicks Bower in the face.
When he gets up, she knocks him to the ground
and gets on top of him, pinning him down.
While holding a knife to his neck, she takes
away his supplies asks him to remove his shoes.
However, she suddenly takes off when she
hears screeching sounds across the corridor.
As Bower tries to run away, something pulls
the hanging corpse to the floor above him.
Bower runs back to the storage room
to hide. He takes a peek and sees
a ghoulish creature holding a
glowing spear looking for him.
Unable to find Bower, the monstrous hunter
wails, prompting others to follow suit.
While hiding in a vent, Payton
suddenly calls out to him on the radio.
Bower quickly shuts it off to prevent
attracting the attention of the monsters.
A hunter suddenly turns up next to
him and tears the vent door open.
He keeps himself quiet as the ghoul reaches into
the vent and grabs Cooper's body. Bower turns the
radio back on and tells Payton that creatures
are running around the ship hunting people.
Bower is hoping to contact someone on the bridge,
but Payton tells him that there will be no one to
help them because they're on a one-way mission.
Payton tells him that the ship was not meant to
collect data or transfer cargo. Its mission is
to take 60,000 people to Tanis. Bower recalls when
people on Earth first saw images of Tanis, which
was the first Earth-like planet discovered in
outer space. Bower believes that his wife must be
onboard the ship because there's no way he would
leave her behind. Bower wants to find her, but
Payton argues that it would be easier to look for
their wives once they are in control of the ship.
Bower wanders around the security room and finds a
non-lethal anti-riot gun. Bower then tells Payton
to look for a path to the reactor bay so he could
reset it. While Payton looks for a safe route,
Bower feels his hand trembling, so he asks
Payton if he remembers the symptoms of Pandorum.
Payton recalls that the syndrome had
caused the Eden mission to fail. An
officer had a psychological breakdown
after two years on duty. Believing that
the flight was cursed, he evacuated the ship,
sending 5,000 to their deaths in outer space.
Bower soon reaches a corridor, where he
comes across another man hanging from a wire.
When he comes closer to investigate, the
man suddenly wakes up and flails around.
Bower tells him to relax and be quiet before
cutting him down. He finds out that the man, named
Shepard, belongs to team 6. Shepard initially
thinks that Bower is a member of a rescue team,
but when Shepard realizes that Bower just woke up,
he ignores the chain of command and tries to take
off on his own. He starts covering himself up with
grease to disguise his scent from the hunters.
But before he could walk away, he sees the
blue torches moving in their direction.
Bower aims his non-lethal gun at the hunters, but
Shepard tells him to run because it won't have
an effect on them. Bower tries to catch up with
Shepard, but hunters catch Shepard while he was
hiding in a corner. While the hunters are feasting
on Shepard, Bower shoots his weapon at a creature,
not realizing that there's a glass between
them. Several hunters start chasing after him,
so he hides by hanging from the tubes
on the ceiling. Hunters soon find him
and snag him with a wire, but
a man arrives to cut him loose.
Bower can't understand the man's language,
but he learns that he's part of the
agricultural team when he sees his tattoo.
He tells the agriculturalist, named Manh,
that he's looking for the reactor,
so he tells Manh to stay behind.
Back in the communications room, Payton tries
to break the door open with a metal bar.
He suddenly hears someone moving through
the vents, so he locks it with a wrench.
While finding his way to the reactor, Bower
comes across an area full of shipping containers.
Nadia suddenly shows up and attacks him.
Bower retaliates, but Nadia manages to
throw him out of the container. Nadia
follows him down to attack him again,
but Manh shows up to defend him.
While Manh and Nadia are fighting,
Bower uses his anti-riot gun, causing debris
to fall on them. As soon as they take cover,
Bower appeals to both of them to start working
as a team instead of fighting each other.
Manh volunteers to take Bower to the reactor,
so they go on their way, leaving Nadia behind.
Nadia soon follows them and says they're going
in the wrong direction. Bower asks her to show
him the way, but she says she doesn't want to go
there because no one comes back alive from that
area. Nadia agrees to take Bower after he claims
that he is capable of flying and landing the ship.
Nadia leads them to a locked door,
but she tells them to they have to
wait before she could open it. While
they're waiting, they hear the growls
of hunters getting closer. A power surge
hits the ship as the hunters reach the area.
The door soon opens, with the three barely
escaping from the monstrous creatures.
Inside the room, Bower learns that Nadia is
part of the genetic sampling team responsible
for gathering the D.N.A. of every plant and
animal life on Earth to preserve it on the ship.
There used to be five of them guarding the
specimens when Nadia woke up several months ago.
Now, she's the only one left. Nadia
stresses that they've already lost
30 percent of the genetic samples.
She fears that all the specimens in
the Embryonic chamber will be wiped
out if they don't fix the reactor.
In the communications room, Payton is suddenly
awakened by a noise coming from the vent,
so he climbs up to investigate. He follows
the noise and figures out that it's coming
from inside the bundle of pipes, so he
prepares to hit it when something comes out.
However, he is startled when he sees a hand reach
out to him. A man calls out for help and tries to
inch his way out of the pipes, so Payton pulls him
out. The man tells him that he is Corporal Gallo,
and he came from the bridge of the ship.
The trio soon reaches the hyper-sleep chamber,
which is also the main hunting ground of the
ghoulish creatures. Bower takes a look inside
the pods and finds that most of them are empty.
Bower surmises that his wife
could be in one of the pods,
but Nadia says family members are
kept in another part of the ship.
Manh falls behind the two as he listens
intently for the arrival of hunters.
He doesn't move even when Bower calls
out to him, so they decide to leave him.
However, Bower falls through a broken
grate as he tries to follow Nadia.
When Nadia goes back for him, she falls
through the grate too. They soon discover
that they've fallen through the pit where
the hunters dump the bones of their victims.
The two carefully climb back up when everything
goes quiet, but a ghoul notices Bower and attacks
him. The hunter then goes after Nadia while
Bower is still disoriented from the attack.
Bower breaks free from the wires binding him
and lunges after the creature. Bower is thrown
across the room, but he manages to strike a blow
against the hunter using a pipe. He tries to hit
the ghoul again, but the creature blocks it and
hits him, sending him crashing against a pod.
Manh emerges and slashes the monster in the
head. The three take turns to attack the ghoul
until Bower stabs it in the chest. They continue
stabbing the hunter to make sure that it's dead.
The leader of the hunters soon arrives and starts
banging on the floor to call the other creatures.
Some of the ghouls run after them while others
jump on the fallen creature to feast on it.
As the group runs away, a pod opens up and wakes
the man inside it. The monsters start attacking
the man as soon as he emerges. Bower tries to
come back to help, but Manh drags him away.
Payton checks Gallo's tattoo and learns
that he was part of Flight Team 4.
He tries to ask more questions, but Gallo becomes
irritated, saying he doesn't know anything.
Payton notices the blood smeared across
Gallo's body and asks him if it was his.
Gallo says that some of it is his own but
hints that some belong to his teammates.
He asserts that something was wrong with the
other crew members, so he had to defend himself.
He tells Payton that he would've
done the same thing if he saw them.
The three soon come across a large chamber
after getting lost on their way to the reactor.
They meet a man named Leland, who offers to
cook for them. As Leland prepares the food,
Bower asks Nadia if the creatures
could've originated from Nadia's lab.
Nadia thinks that the hunters were passengers
who have mutated because of the accelerators
injected into their bloodstream. The enzyme
was supposed to help the humans adapt to the
environment when they reach Tanis, but the people
who were awakened before them adapted to the ship
instead. She deduces that the ghouls may have been
awake much longer than any surviving crew members.
Meanwhile, Payton grabs a needle gun to
sedate Gallo, but he refuses and starts
asking Payton if he'd seen the symptoms of
Pandorum first-hand. Gallo stresses that the
syndrome is affected by psychological trauma
and comes with an emotional trigger effect.
Payton's hand starts shaking, so
he tries to hide it from Gallo.
Back in the chamber, Leland starts
telling the group what happened on
the ship with the help of
the drawings on the walls.
Gallo also reveals to Payton what transpired
at the bridge before Bower woke up.
When Elysium left Earth, three crew members
were left in charge of flying the ship.
Gallo detected mild symptoms of Pandorum on
his commanding officer and his 2nd lieutenant.
The symptoms, however, became more severe
when they received a message from Earth.
The transmission bids them farewell,
saying, "You're all that's left of us.
Good luck, God Bless, and God speed." The
crew learns that Earth has been decimated.
Elysium scanned the grid for any signs
of the planet but couldn't find it.
Soon after receiving the message, Gallo
killed the C.O. and his 2nd lieutenant,
claiming that they had lost their minds.
Instead of going back to hyper-sleep,
Gallo stayed up and woke other passengers.
He put some of them on the cargo hold,
leaving them with no choice but to scavenge
for food and eventually feed on each other.
After growing tired of leading the
crew, Gallo went back to hyper-sleep.
While he was in hibernation, a different kind
of evil was unleashed from the cargo hold.
As Leland tells his story, white
smoke emanates from the walls,
and the group starts to feel light-headed.
They pass out as soon as Leland finishes.
Back in the communications room, Payton's
shivers have become much worse and apparent.
When Bower wakes up, he finds himself and his two
companions tied upside down in Leland's chamber.
Nadia concludes that Leland is planning to
eat them. She goes on to antagonize Leland,
so he stabs her near her ribs. Bower tries
to convince Leland that he can save the ship,
but Leland asserts that Bower will say anything
to survive. Bower explains that the power surges
indicate that the ship is in its final
phase before it totally shuts down and
kills everyone on board. He says that they have
less than an hour to reset the reactor. Leland
realizes that the power surges have been
getting worse, so he agrees to help them.
Bower contacts Payton and asks him to check the
data from the last power surge to find out how
much time they have left. Payton informs them that
they have 47 minutes before the ship shuts down
completely. Bower then tells the lieutenant
to find them a safe path to the reactor.
The group comes across a little ghoul
along the way, so Manh tries to kill it.
Nadia stops him and points out that
it's just a child. As they argue,
the creature runs away and jumps up to an
open vent. A full-grown hunter soon emerges
and chases them. They hide in a chamber
containing the pods of the crew's family.
Back in the communications room, Gallo
tries to convince Payton to leave the
ship and forget about resetting the power
supply. He argues that Bower couldn't
figure out his own name when he woke up 24
hours ago, much less configure a reactor.
Bower soon notices that all the pods are empty.
Nadia asks him if he thinks his wife was in one
of the pods. Bower says she's not, recalling
that she refused to come with him. He reveals
that he decided to enlist to be included in
Project Elysium because his wife left him.
Seeing the empty capsules, Bower starts to
feel discouraged and refuses to go further.
Nadia, however, convinces him that they need
to complete the mission and reach Tanis.
When he sees the pod of Payton's wife, he starts
to remember something about the lieutenant,
but he doesn't disclose it to the group.
The group soon reaches the reactor room, but
they find that it's full of sleeping hunters.
One creature was suddenly jolted awake by the
noise when Bower steps on the footway, but it
soon falls back to sleep. Bower walks further,
but the footpath suddenly breaks before he could
reach the reactor. Nadia quickly runs toward him
to pull him up while Manh holds the bridge. Bower,
however, decides to drop down when he sees Manh
struggling to carry the weight of the footpath.
Bower covers himself up with slime and wears
dead skin that he found lying around to avoid
being detected when he sets foot on the
ground where the creatures are sleeping.
Meanwhile, Gallo manages to take the needle
gun from Payton and force him to open up a pod.
He tells Payton to enter the
code to eject the capsule,
but Payton stops and leaves
him locked up in there.
While Bower sneaks his way back up to
the console, Leland accidentally drops
a flashlight and wakes up the monsters. Manh
drops the bridge on them and yells to attract
their attention. Bower soon reaches the reactor
and resets it with less than 4 minutes left.
As the machine restarts, the discharge
blasts away some of the hunters.
Manh makes it out of the reactor bay, but he
soon meets the chief hunter and fights with him.
In the communications room, Payton
tries to open the door to the bridge,
but Gallo warns him against going in there. He
mutes the audio coming from Gallo's pod, but he
still hears his voice somehow. Manh manages to
stab the chief hunter with the spear. Meanwhile,
Leland sees Bower and Nadia being chased by
ghouls, so he decides to close the door on them.
Fortunately, they are able to lock
the ghouls out on the other side.
The creature continues attacking Manh and bites
him on the stomach. As the hunter chews on him,
Manh breaks a rod protruding from the creature's
suit and stabs it repeatedly until it dies.
When he turns around, he sees a
young ghoul staring at him. He
approaches it to stab it with
his knife, but he hesitates.
As he slowly puts his weapon down, the child
suddenly strikes at him, cutting his throat open.
Gallo breaks out of the pod and tries
to inject Payton with the sedative.
As they struggle, Payton sees
their tattooed arms start to merge.
When the needle pierces his skin, he
realizes that he is alone in the room.
Leland soon arrives at the bridge, telling Payton
that he helped Bower to restart the reactor.
Payton stabs Leland with the needle gun
in the eye and walks back to the console.
Nadia and Bower soon arrive at the communications
room, evading the monsters chasing after them.
Bower heads straight to the bridge to
confront Payton, recalling that he's not
really his lieutenant. Payton reveals that he is
Corporal Gallo. When Bower asks where they are,
Payton opens the window and shows them
there is no sign of stars anywhere.
Bower soon starts feeling symptoms
of Pandorum while Payton explains his
motivation for sabotaging the mission. He
subdues Payton and starts pulling out his
teeth. But Nadia suddenly interrupts him
and tells him to look at the window again.
They soon discover that they're underwater
and they've been in Tanis all along. A console
informs them that it has been 923 since the
ship flew out of the Earth's atmosphere.
Payton attacks Bower, who starts hallucinating
as the symptoms of Pandorum get worse.
Nadia tries to fight Payton, but the lieutenant
overpowers her. Bower shoots his anti-riot gun
at a compartment, thinking that there's a
hunter emerging. The blast breaks a piece
of the compartment and hits the window, causing it
to crack and break open from the water pressure.
As the water floods the room, Nadia
and Bower run to a pod and get inside.
Payton drowns as the water continues to flow
into the ship. Nadia panics as she sees the
water level in the pod rising rapidly, but Bower
tells her to hold on. The pod soon takes off and
propels its way to the surface. Bower puts the
oxygen mask on Nadia while he holds his breath.
Upon reaching the surface, Bower takes
off the oxygen mask and wakes Nadia,
telling her that they're safe. Soon,
other pods emerge from the water as a result
of the ship's emergency evacuation protocol.
Bower and Nadia smile as they watch the other
people start waking up to a wondrous new planet.